In this video we're going to go ahead
and download and install Python for the
Windows platform. Now if you're running a
Mac or running a Linux computer, do refer
to the separate videos in this section
of the course and that's because the
process of downloading and installing
path are slightly different for those
platforms, but if you run in Windows
follow along in this video. So the first
thing to do is go to python.org,
and once you get there you can
move your mouse down to downloads and
you can see a little pop-up window came
up and come over here and select what is
the latest version and you can see
currently it's showing Python to three
point six point two, so I'm going to
click that then I'm going to actually
save this and while that's downloading,
all that shouldn't take long, I just want
to mention that you probably don't want
or you certainly don't want to download
Python 2. In this course we're going to
be going through and using Python 3,
but do keep in mind that we'll talk a
little bit from time to time about the
older version Python, but in general we
definitely want you to download and use
Python 3, because that's the majority of
the courses and of course it's the most
recent version. Alright so down on the
bottom you can see that's now finished
downloading, so I'm going to click on run,
now you click this little option that will
pop up, it gives you the directory where
it's going to install the files, you can
choose a custom installation, you don't
really need to do that, anything you
really need to do here is just click on
this little checkbox, I mean it very
important that you do that to add python
3.6 to path, so that's been checked and
they've come up here and click on
install now, noting that it's actually
installing it there in my local app data
folder. So click on install now,
you didn't see that most likely but there's
a little pop-up that came up and said
I had to click on yes to allow it to
continue installing, so I clicked on that
and it's now going through the process,
it's a fairly fast process I won't take
too long to finish.
Alright, so at this point you can see
that it's actually now finished and
successfully installed and we just click
on close, we can ignore this disabled
path length limit, we don't need to worry
about that, click on close and what we
want to do now is just verify that
Python has been correctly installed and
that we can access it and one quick way
to do that is to come over here and
click on your Windows icon right-click
it and select run, that should work on
most versions of Windows but just make
sure that you get this option to run and
type in that little window a little
while the order should say CMD which is
an abbreviation for command press enter
that opens up a command window and if we
just type in Python now, python press
enter you can see in my case it's came
up and said python three point six point
two. So that's a visual confirmation that
python has been successfully installed.
Now I'm going to exit out of this by
typing exit then left to right
parenthesis press enter and if you
happen to type Python but you've got
something like this and I'm just going
to type it incorrect command, so if you
type Python and you got python is not
recognized as an internal or external
command, two things probably you or one
of two things may have occurred firstly
you may not have click on that add to
path, which was on that first checkbox
that came up when were installing python
and secondly, you may need to reboot your
computer for the change to take effect.
So first things first would be to reboot
and see and go back into the command
window and see whether that fixes the
problem, if that doesn't fix it you might
want to go through the process of
uninstalling and reinstalling python and
making sure that this time you click on
that add to path checkbox to make sure
that's ticked and you should find in
most cases that will fix the problem,
for once I'm going to type exit there to
close down the command window at this
point we're done.
So we're done with the installation of
Python and we can move on to the next video.